# [Camilla's Quicksilver Mirror](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/gsb2/magic-items-c-d#CamillasQuicksilverMirror)

#Wondrous *item,* #VeryRare *(requires attunement)*

This hand mirror is roughly 1 foot tall and weighs 1 pound. While gazing into its reflective surface, you see a version of yourself that’s ever-so-slightly different. For example, your legs may bend the opposite direction, your eyes may be pitch black, or your reflection simply takes a moment to match whatever it is you’re doing. If you look at your reflection in the mirror while holding it and aren’t attuned to the mirror, you are forced to make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, you are [frightened](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/free-rules/rules-glossary#FrightenedCondition) of the mirror, are unable to look away from or let go of it, and your speed becomes 0 for the duration. You can repeat this saving throw at the start of each of your turns or whenever you take damage while frightened in this way, ending the effect on a success. If you can’t see the mirror, you have advantage on the saving throw. On a successful save, you are immune to this effect for 24 hours.

While attuned to the mirror, you can use an action to hold it out and force another creature within 30 feet of you that can see you to see its own reflection. That creature must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or suffer from one of the following effects (your choice):

**_Frighten._** The creature is [frightened](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/free-rules/rules-glossary#FrightenedCondition) of the mirror for up to 1 minute, is unable to look away from it, and its speed becomes 0 for the duration. The creature can repeat this saving throw at the start of each of its turns while frightened in this way, ending the effect on a success. If it can’t see the mirror at the start of its turn, it has advantage on the saving throw. On a successful save, the creature is immune to this effect for 24 hours.

**_Store Reflection._** The creature’s reflection is stored within the mirror. While stored, you can use an action to look into the mirror and cause your own reflection to become the stored one, simultaneously changing the appearance of your physical form as if you had cast the [[Alter Self]] spell (Change Appearance option). This version of the spell lasts until it’s dispelled. You can have up to 3 stored reflections in this way. A stored reflection is lost after it’s used to alter your form. An affected creature is aware that its reflection has been stored, but not its or the mirror’s purpose.

These properties can be used a combined total of three times and regain all expended uses daily at dawn. Using a stored reflection to alter your appearance doesn’t count against the mirror’s total number of uses.

#GriffonsSaddlebag 