# [Homeroot](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/9445224-homeroot)

#Wondrous *item,* #Rare 

This piece of gnarled root has several bulbous openings along its twisted length. Enchanted by powerful druids, this root has a tiny door and a small, chimney-like protrusion from its larger end. While holding it, a tiny plume of illusory smoke emanates from the chimney.

You can bury and plant this root in soil over the course of 1 minute. If the root remains buried for 1 hour, it then immediately grows underground to create a comfortable, wooden dwelling (provided that there’s enough room to grow), and a stump appears from the ground where the root was buried. The stump has a simple round door carved into it that is large enough for a Medium or smaller creature to enter. The door appears and opens only at your command, which you can speak as a bonus action. It is immune to the [[Knock]] spell and similar magic, such as that of a [[Chime of Opening]]. The door opens to reveal a tunnel 15 feet deep and lined with ladder-like rungs made of twisting roots. At the bottom of the tunnel is a large, circular room that’s 30 feet in diameter with 10-foot-high ceilings. The room is brightly lit by bioluminescent fungi that grow along its wooden walls and ceiling. You can magically control the light in the room by touching the luminous fungi, allowing you to fill the room with total darkness, dim light, or bright light.

A single hallway leads away from the room. Four doors line the hallway, which each lead to a room that’s 10 feet in diameter with a 10-foot-high ceiling. Every room is decorated with various pieces of wooden furniture made from coiled roots and other magically occurring plant growth, such as tables, chairs, or a bed, depending on the needs of the creature who planted the root.

At the end of the hallway hangs a single red root. You can use a bonus action to pull the root to cause the hallway to extend upward into a tunnel, complete with a root-like ladder, and create a second, temporary entrance to the dwelling in an unoccupied space 60 feet away from the entrance stump. The temporary entrance is well-hidden, noticeable only with a successful DC 15 Wisdom ([Perception](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/free-rules/playing-the-game#Skills)) check, and remains until the start of your next turn.

A creature that casts the [[Plant Growth]] spell as an action can redesign the appearance and furniture in one of the dwelling’s rooms. If the spell is cast over the course of 8 hours, the creature can redesign the appearance and furniture of the entire dwelling instead, except for the location of the entrance stump. A conscious druid or ranger inside the dwelling is aware of any Small or larger creature that comes within 60 feet of the dwelling’s entrance, and magically knows only the creature’s size and gait, such as the gallop of a horse or walk of a humanoid.

The entrance stump has 100 hit points, immunity to damage from nonmagical weapons excluding siege weapons, and resistance to all other damage. Only a [[Plant Growth]] spell cast on the stump can repair it, with each casting restoring 10 hit points to it, or all its hit points if cast over the course of 8 hours. If the stump is destroyed, the dwelling collapses and magically shunts anything inside it (other than the furniture) to the nearest unoccupied space next to where the root was buried. When this happens, the earth magically returns to the way it was before the root was buried.

#GriffonsSaddlebag 