# [Lady Phantasma’s Material Anchor](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/9445256-lady-phantasmas-material-anchor)

#Wondrous *item,* #VeryRare 

This small and rusted anchor charm is bound to a famous, lost ship: the _Lady Phantasma_. This ship and its crew was lost to the Ethereal Plane centuries ago, cursed to remain there for all eternity as punishment for stealing a powerful [sea hag’s](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/5195198-sea-hag) treasured relic. However, this small charm can act as the ship’s sole remaining tether to the [[Material Plane]].

As an action, you can call out to the ship while holding the charm aloft. If you’re within 30 feet of a body of water on the Material Plane, a full-sized anchor appears on the ground in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the water. A wispy, green chain appears on the anchor that extends into nothingness for 1 minute. At the end of the minute, the _Lady Phantasma_ emerges from the [[Ethereal Plane]], pulled by the anchor’s chain, and comes to rest in the water nearby. The ship is a longship 70 feet long and 20 feet wide. It’s piloted by thirty-four crewmembers and five officers, all of whom are long-dead, ghostly remains of their former selves. They are formless and harmless, but are nevertheless visible and friendly to you and your companions. They can interact with the rigging, sails, and other equipment on the ship, but nothing else while they remain on the Material Plane. While the ship remains, you are considered the captain of the vessel while the charm is on your person.

At dawn, the ship’s crew is shunted back to the [[Ethereal Plane]], leaving the ship behind, until the following dusk when they reappear on the vessel once more. The ship’s anchor is immovable while the crew is on the [[Ethereal Plane]], holding the ship in place until they return each night. While the ship can move, it moves at a speed of 10 miles per hour, even when there isn’t any wind.

If the charm is removed from the _Lady Phantasma_ for 24 hours, the ship and its crew vanish and return to the [[Ethereal Plane]] until they’re summoned again. You can speak the charm’s command phrase “Until the tides call once more,” to cause the ship and crew to return to the [[Ethereal Plane]] early. Any objects on the ship other than what was there when it came from the [[Ethereal Plane]] are dropped into the water below the ship when it disappears. If the ship is destroyed while on the [[Material Plane]], the charm is destroyed and turns to flecks of nonmagical rust.

#GriffonsSaddlebag 