# [Monster Tamer’s Sword](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/9445317-monster-tamers-sword)

#Weapon *(any sword),* #Rare *(requires attunement)*

This magic weapon exerts dominance over certain creatures and was crafted by a culture known for its hunting and battling of monsters.

This sword has 6 charges and regains 1d4 + 2 expended charges daily at dawn. As a reaction when you reduce a Large or smaller beast or monstrosity of challenge rating 3 or lower to 0 hit points with this weapon, you can expend 1 of its charges to try and capture it instead. The creature must make a DC 15 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, it disappears and is contained within the sword with 1 hit point. On a success, it resists the effect and falls to 0 hit points. Shapechangers automatically succeed on the saving throw. Only one creature can be captured by the sword at any time.

As an action while holding the sword, you can speak its command phrase to release the stored creature. It reappears in an unoccupied space that you can see within 10 feet of you. The creature is friendly to you and your companions. Roll initiative for the creature, which has its own turns. It obeys any verbal commands that you issue to it (no action required by you). If you don’t issue any commands to it, it defends itself from hostile creatures, but otherwise takes no actions. The GM has the creature’s statistics. The creature returns to the sword after 1 minute if you’re within 100 feet of it, or earlier if you touch the creature with the sword as an action. The creature ceases to be friendly to you and your companions if it’s unable to return to the sword, or if you release control of it using a bonus action, or if it takes damage from you or an ally.

While you’re holding the sword and the creature is stored within it or within 30 feet of you, you can use a bonus action to speak the weapon’s command word and expend 1 or more of its charges to restore 10 hit points to that creature for each charge spent. A captured creature can only regain hit points in this way.