# [Nimbus, First Staff of the Thunderbirds](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/9445335-nimbus-first-staff-of-the-thunderbirds)

#Staff, #Artifact *(requires attunement)*

This ancient staff was created when a piece of driftwood was struck by lightning, fusing it to a twisted length of glass made from the sand on which it laid. Revered by the Rocborne nomads and other worldly travelers, this one-of-a-kind crook carries with it the power of storms, tempests, and the wind spirits that control them. When it appears, it falls from the sky in the eye of a storm or a flash of lightning.

This staff can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. In addition, when you attack with the staff, you can choose to make a special ranged attack with it instead. This attack is a ranged spell attack with a range of 30 feet. You are proficient with it, and you add your Wisdom modifier to its attack and damage rolls. On a hit, it deals 1d6 bludgeoning damage as a gust of magical wind batters the target.

**_Variant Properties._** Some properties of this artifact are locked behind layers of dormant magic. As you grow stronger and reach certain milestones, these properties may become available to you. This staff can have up to 3 of the following properties active at a time. When you attune to _Nimbus_, you can choose to activate up to 3 of its variant properties whose prerequisites you meet. Whenever you finish a long rest, you can replace any of the activated properties with another one.

- The staff can be used as a [[Broom of Flying]].
- _(Prerequisite: 5th level)_ While holding the staff, you can use a bonus action to cast the [[Shillelagh]] spell with it.
- _(Prerequisite: 5th level druid or ranger)_ The staff gains 8 charges and regains 1d6 + 2 expended charges daily at dawn. While holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC: [[Create or Destroy Water]] (1 charge), [[Fog Cloud]] (1 charge), [[Misty Step]] (2 charges), [[Sleet Storm]] (3 charges), or [[Thunderwave]] (2nd-level version, 2 charges). If you activate another property that causes the staff to gain charges, the total number of charges and regained charges are cumulative.
- _(Prerequisite: 9th level)_ Your bonus to attack and damage rolls with this weapon increases to +2, and the special ranged attack’s damage die becomes a d8. When you reach 17th level, the bonus increases to +3, and the ranged attack’s damage die becomes a d10.
- _(Prerequisite: 9th level)_ The first target hit by the staff on each of your turns takes an extra 1d6 cold, lightning, or thunder damage (your choice).
- _(Prerequisite: 13th level druid or ranger)_ The staff gains 8 charges and regains 1d6 + 2 expended charges daily at dawn. While holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC: [[Lightning Bolt]] (3 charges), [[Shatter]] (2 charges), [[Spirit Guardians]] (3 charges), or [[Wind Wall]] (3 charges). If you activate another property that causes the staff to gain charges, the total number of charges and regained charges are cumulative.
- _(Prerequisite: 13th level)_ While holding the staff, you have resistance to cold, lightning, or thunder damage (your choice). When you finish a long rest, you can change this resistance to a different one.
- _(Prerequisite: 17th level)_ While holding the staff, you can take the [Dash](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/free-rules/rules-glossary#DashAction) action as a bonus action on your turn, as wind spirits help usher you forward.
- _(Prerequisite: 17th level druid or ranger)_ The staff gains 8 charges and regains 1d6 + 2 expended charges daily at dawn. While holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC: [[Chain Lightning]] (6 charges), [[Cloudkill]] (5 charges), [[Cone of Cold]] (5 charges), [[Control Weather]] (8 charges), or [[Fly]] (3 charges, or 6 charges to cast at 6th level). If you activate another property that causes the staff to gain charges, the total number of charges and regained charges are cumulative.
- _(Prerequisite: 20th level druid or ranger)_ You gain the benefits of all of this staff’s variant properties. In addition, if you are a ranger, you can summon a [roc](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/5195184-roc) to your location by spending 8 hours performing an ancient Rocborne ritual. The roc is friendly toward you and your companions, its Intelligence becomes 6, and it gains the ability to understand one language of your choice that you speak. Once this property of the staff has been used, it can’t be used again until you dismiss the roc using an action or until the roc dies. If the roc dies, this property can’t be used again for 30 days.

**_Destroying Nimbus._** The only way to destroy _Nimbus, First Staff of the Thunderbirds_ is to keep it in a vacuum for 10 years, depriving it of any air, at which point the staff cracks open to release the swirling storm inside it. If the force of the released storm causes the vacuum to end, the storm escapes and continues to rage above that location for 1 year.

#GriffonsSaddlebag 